now the children of Reuben and the
children of GAD had a very great
multitude of livestock and when they saw
the land of jeiza and the land of Gilead
that indeed the region was a place for
livestock the children of GAD and the
children of Reuben came and spoke to
Moses to Eleazar the priest and to the
leaders of the congregation at HaRav
diven J sir
Nimrod heshbon Aleli she Bamm niebo and
beyond the country which the Lord
defeated before the congregation of
Israel is a land for livestock and your
servants have livestock therefore they
said if we have found favor in your
sight let this land be given to your
servants as a possession do not take us
over the Jordan and Moses said to the
children of GAD and to the children of
Reuben shall your brethren go to war
while you sit here now why will you
discourage the heart of the children of
Israel from going over into the land
which the Lord has given them thus your
fathers did when I sent them away from
Kadesh Barnea to see the land for when
they went up to the valley of Eshcol and
saw the land they discouraged the heart
of the children of Israel so that they
did not go into the land which the Lord
had given them so the Lord's anger was
aroused on that day and he swore an oath
saying surely none of the men who came
up from Egypt from twenty years old and
above shall see the land of which I
swore to Abraham Isaac and Jacob because
they
not wholly followed me except Caleb the
son of Jephunneh the kena site and
Joshua the son of nun for they have
wholly followed the Lord so the Lord's
anger was aroused against Israel and he
made them wander in the wilderness 40
years until all the generation that had
done evil in the sight of the Lord was
gone and look you have arisen in your
father's place a brood of sinful men to
increase still more the fierce anger of
the Lord against Israel for if you turn
away from following him he will once
again leave them in the wilderness and
you will destroy all these people then
they came near to him and said we will
build sheep falls here for our livestock
and cities for our little ones but we
ourselves will be armed ready to go
before the children of Israel until we
have brought them to their place and our
little ones will dwell in the fortified
cities because of the inhabitants of the
land we will not return to our homes
until every one of the children of
Israel has received his inheritance
for we will not inherit with them on the
other side of the Jordan and beyond
because our inheritance has fallen to us
on this eastern side of the Jordan if
you do this thing if you arm yourselves
before the Lord for the war and all your
armed men cross over the Jordan before
the Lord until he is driven out his
enemies from before him
the land is subdued before the Lord then
afterward you may return and be
blameless before the Lord and before
Israel this land shall be your
possession before the Lord but if you do
not do so then take note you have sinned
against the Lord and be sure your sin
will find you out
build cities for your little ones and
folds for your sheep and do it as four
seeded out of your mouth and the
children of GAD and the children of
Reuben spoke to Moses your servants will
do as my Lord commands our little ones
our wives our flocks and all our
livestock will be there in the cities of
Gilead but your servants cross over
every man armed for war before the Lord
to battle just as my Lord says so Moses
gave command consenting them to Eleazar
the priest to Joshua the son of nun and
to the chief fathers of the tribes of
the children of Israel and Moses said to
them if the children of GAD and the
children of Reuben cross over the Jordan
with you every man armed for battle
before the Lord and the land is subdued
before you then you shall give them the
land of Gilead as a possession but if
they do not cross over
armed with you they shall have
possessions among you in the land of
Canaan and the children of GAD and the
children of Reuben answered as the Lord
has said to your servants so we will do
we will cross over armed before the Lord
into the land of Canaan but the
possession of our inheritance shall
remain with us on this side of the
Jordan
so Moses gave to the children of GAD to
the children of Reuben and to half the
tribe of Manasseh the son of Joseph the
kingdom of Sihon king of the amorite and
the kingdom of ugh king of Bashan the
land with its cities within the borders
the cities of the surrounding country
and the children of GAD built diamond
and a tariff and Aurora at Roth and
chauffeur and jeiza and Jaguar both
Nomura and Beth Haven fortified cities
and folds for sheep and the children of
Reuben built heshbon and Ely Ailin and
kerchief faith niebo and bail mia the
names being changed and Shipman and they
gave other names to the cities which
they built and the children of maker the
son of Manasseh went to Gilead and took
it and dispossessed the amorous who were
in it so Moses gave Gilead to make him
the son of Manasseh and he dwelt in it
also Jaya the son of Manasseh went and
took its small towns and called them ava
jae air and noba went and took Keinath
and its villages and he called it Noba
after his own name